# URL Bookmark App

## Overview/User Journeys

A JavaScript Web Application that maintains a list of bookmarks (URLS).

The user is able to add/edit/delete any link in the list and the applications displays to the user a paginated pageset with 20 links per page. New URLs can be added and the application checks whether A) the URL is in a valid format (must be prefixed with https:// or https://) and B) that the URL actually exists. Users can also clear all data to reset the app, as well as load in sample data which I have provided.

Application can be found at https://jamesriall.co.uk/bookmark-app/

## Development Environment

- Developed on Mac OS in Sublime Text 3 with various plugins.
- npm was used for development dependencies.
- Version control with git, pushing to the remote repository on GitHub.
- Sass (scss syntax) as CSS pre-processor.
- Gulp as task runner - watching scss files, browserSync, Babel to compile code to ES5 for better browser support, minifying CSS and JS files, compressing images and fonts, building production folder and deploying to GitHub Pages.
- Code published on GitHub Pages (redirect set up with my custom domain name through Cloudflare).
- Linting to Google JS Style Guide using gulp-gjslint plugin.

## Application Design

A fairly straightforward front-end HTML/CSS/JS project architecture with the initial framework of the page, minus content loaded from the HTML and CSS files. I have written the JavaScript files in a functional programming style, seeking to keep the functions as pure, small and reusable as possible.

Sample data is loaded into the file through the startingData const stored in the js/ folder.

Pages are generated by determining how many pages of data there are (max 20 per page) and rendering the required page numbers to the screen. The selectedPage variable stores which page the user should be displayed and can be manipulated by clicking on the page numbers or arrows.

Links are generated by iterating over the array for the required range - i.e. page two would iterate from item 21 to 40. The links are then added to the page using innerHTML and a JSX-like string. Links can be edited in place through use of the contenteditable attribute and can be deleted (with the necessary page refresh and updating of the pages/links).

New links can be added through the input form - a custom regex pattern verifies the user if their input is not a valid URL, and displays a custom message. If the pattern matches, the form is submitted and an http request is sent to the URL. If a 200 code is returned (page exists), the link is either added to the list successfully if it's not already within the list, or is discarded if it already exists in the list. If a 200 code is not returned, then the link is not added to the list. All possibilities will display a different custom message to the user, the URL and a button to return them to the overview page.

Local storage is used to persist data across browser refreshes.

## Limitations and Desired Improvements
- URLs are validated on adding a new URL, but not when editing an existing URL. This allows for broken links to be introduced to the application. I would seek to address this issue.
- JavaScript code needs more testing - in future I would seek to build using a TDD process.
- JavaScript file does not fully confirm to the Google Style Guide due to the multiline innerHTML usage. I would either seek advice on this exemption to the style guide or seek to replace this code with direct DOM Node manipulation.
- I would potentially look to abstract out the http request to make it more reusable in other parts of the application were it to expand.
- I would seek to make the components built with the innerHTML calls more reusable and flexible.
- Use the Google Closure Compiler with advanced optimizations - I was able to establish how to use the closure compiler in the command line, but it blocked my attempts to build the final minified versions of the .js files due to a couple of lint errors I was not able to solve given the time limitations - namely window usage of localStorage and the global use of this in the http request. JS was minified using gulp-uglify-es instead.

## Desirable Additional User Features
- As discussed, validating edited URLs.
- Rather than a click to edit link displaying, I believe a click to be directed to the URL would be better, with the editing capability moved to a button which would display an edit modal to the user.
- Better support for long URLs on mobile - currently long URLs would overflow to the right of the screen. Ideally display would truncate the URL at a certain length to prevent this.
- Display information from the http request to URLs and display information like the title of the webpage on each individual link. e.g. https://www.theguardian.com would also display 'The Guardian'.
- Ability to categorise links - for example 'News', 'Social', 'Entertainment' etc.
- Routing!
